README.md, before:

# Typesense UI

A clean, simple, and decluttered Next.js UI for managing Typesense instances. This project provides an intuitive interface for exploring your Typesense collections and documents without the complexity of using the Typesense API directly.

## 📊 Status

This is a learning-focused project currently in active development. While functional for basic use cases (see below), it currently lacks some key features. For a feature complete UI, please check out [Typesense Dashboard](https://github.com/bfritscher/typesense-dashboard) by @bfritscher.

## ✨ Features

- **Multiple Connection Management**: Connect to multiple Typesense instances and switch between them seamlessly
- **Collection Browser**: View all collections in your Typesense database at once
- **Document Data Table**: Browse documents with standard table functionality:
  - **Search**: Search across all string fields in your documents
  - **Pagination**: Navigate through large datasets with configurable page sizes
  - **Sorting**: Sort by any field that supports sorting in Typesense
  - **Column Management**: Show/hide columns to customize your view
- **Clean, Modern UI**: Built with Next.js 15, Tailwind CSS, and ShadCN UI components. Theme inspired by Claude.
- **Privacy-First**: All connections and data remain in your browser - nothing is transmitted to external servers

## 🎯 Motivation

This project was born from two main motivations:

1. **Learning Opportunity**: As I increasingly integrate Typesense into my projects, I wanted to gain better observability and deeper understanding of the API's features and capabilities.

2. **Personal Need**: @bfritscher already built and maintains a great UI for managing Typesense instances, go check it out [here](https://github.com/bfritscher/typesense-dashboard). However, I desired a cleaner UI and have some bespoke requirements for my use cases, see planned features below.

## 🚀 Live Demo

Try the hosted version at: **[https://typesense.lang.scot](https://typesense.lang.scot)**

## Planned Features

These planned features represent the roadmap to v1.0.0. Upon completion, I plan to expand into more advanced functionality focused on improving the feedback loop of optimizing search experiences. In addition, I may pivot or fork this project to add integrations beyond the scope of Typesense. If you have any ideas around this, please let me know!

> [!TIP]
> If you are looking for these features already, please check out [Typesense Dashboard](https://github.com/bfritscher/typesense-dashboard) by @bfritscher.


- **Collection management**: Basic management of collections, including creation, updating, deletion, alias'ing.
- **Synonym/Stopword management**: Basic management of synonyms and stopwords.
- **Curation/overrides management**: Basic management of curation/override rules.
- **Document management**: Basic management of documents, including creation, updating, importing, and deletion.


## 📋 Prerequisites

Before using this UI, ensure your Typesense server has CORS enabled. You can configure this by adding the following parameters to your Typesense server startup:

```bash
--enable-cors
--cors-domains=https://typesense.lang.scot,http://localhost:3000
```

For more details on CORS configuration, see the [Typesense CORS documentation](https://typesense.org/docs/28.0/api/server-configuration.html#cors).

## 🛠️ Installation & Setup (for running locally/self hosting)

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ 
- pnpm (recommended) or npm

### Quick Start

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/langscot/typesense-ui
   cd typesense-ui
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pnpm install
   # or
   npm install
   ```

3. **Run the development server**
   ```bash
   pnpm dev
   # or
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

### Production Build

```bash
# Build the application
pnpm build

# Start the production server
pnpm start
```

## 🏗️ Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 15 with App Router
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS v4
- **UI Components**: Radix UI + shadcn/ui
- **State Management**: Zustand
- **Data Fetching**: TanStack Query
- **Table**: TanStack Table
- **Forms**: React Hook Form + Zod
- **Animations**: Motion (Framer Motion)
- **Icons**: Lucide React
- **Linting**: Biome

## 🔧 Development

### Available Scripts

```bash
pnpm dev          # Start development server
pnpm build        # Build for production
pnpm start        # Start production server
pnpm lint         # Run linter
pnpm lint:fix     # Fix linting issues
```

### Project Structure

```
typesense-ui/
├── app/                    # Next.js app directory
│   ├── dashboard/          # Dashboard pages
│   └── globals.css         # Global styles
├── components/             # React components
│   ├── ui/                 # Reusable UI components
│   └── *.tsx               # Feature components
├── hooks/                  # Custom React hooks
├── lib/                    # Utilities and configurations
│   └── typesense/          # Typesense client and store
└── public/                 # Static assets
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! This is a learning-focused project, so contributions from all levels of experience are welcome.

### How to Contribute

1. **Open an Issue First**: Before making changes, please open an issue to discuss what you'd like to work on. This helps us coordinate and avoid duplicate work.

2. **Fork & Clone**: Fork the repository and clone it to your local machine.

3. **Create a Branch**: Create a feature branch for your changes.
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```

4. **Make Changes**: Implement your changes

5. **Test**: Ensure your changes work correctly and don't break existing functionality

6. **Submit PR**: Push your changes and submit a pull request with a clear description of what you've added or changed.

## 📄 License

This project is open source and available under the [GNU General Public License v3.0](LICENSE).

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [Typesense](https://typesense.org/) for the excellent search engine
- [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/) for the beautiful UI components
- Claude for the beautiful theme inspiration

---

**Note**: This project is not affiliated with Typesense. It's an independent open-source project created to provide a better UI experience for Typesense users.

## Screenshots

### Connection manager

![Connection manager](docs/images/connection-manager.png)

### Documents Table

![Documents table](docs/images/documents-table.png)

Commit message:

docs(readme): Add known issues section relating to mixed content
Closes #2

README.md, after:

# Typesense UI

A clean, simple, and decluttered Next.js UI for managing Typesense instances. This project provides an intuitive interface for exploring your Typesense collections and documents without the complexity of using the Typesense API directly.

## 📊 Status

This is a learning-focused project currently in active development. While functional for basic use cases (see below), it currently lacks some key features. For a feature complete UI, please check out [Typesense Dashboard](https://github.com/bfritscher/typesense-dashboard) by @bfritscher.

## ✨ Features

- **Multiple Connection Management**: Connect to multiple Typesense instances and switch between them seamlessly
- **Collection Browser**: View all collections in your Typesense database at once
- **Document Data Table**: Browse documents with standard table functionality:
  - **Search**: Search across all string fields in your documents
  - **Pagination**: Navigate through large datasets with configurable page sizes
  - **Sorting**: Sort by any field that supports sorting in Typesense
  - **Column Management**: Show/hide columns to customize your view
- **Clean, Modern UI**: Built with Next.js 15, Tailwind CSS, and ShadCN UI components. Theme inspired by Claude.
- **Privacy-First**: All connections and data remain in your browser - nothing is transmitted to external servers

## 🎯 Motivation

This project was born from two main motivations:

1. **Learning Opportunity**: As I increasingly integrate Typesense into my projects, I wanted to gain better observability and deeper understanding of the API's features and capabilities.

2. **Personal Need**: @bfritscher already built and maintains a great UI for managing Typesense instances, go check it out [here](https://github.com/bfritscher/typesense-dashboard). However, I desired a cleaner UI and have some bespoke requirements for my use cases, see planned features below.

## 🚀 Live Demo

Try the hosted version at: **[https://typesense.lang.scot](https://typesense.lang.scot)**

## Planned Features

These planned features represent the roadmap to v1.0.0. Upon completion, I plan to expand into more advanced functionality focused on improving the feedback loop of optimizing search experiences. In addition, I may pivot or fork this project to add integrations beyond the scope of Typesense. If you have any ideas around this, please let me know!

> [!TIP]
> If you are looking for these features already, please check out [Typesense Dashboard](https://github.com/bfritscher/typesense-dashboard) by @bfritscher.


- **Collection management**: Basic management of collections, including creation, updating, deletion, alias'ing.
- **Synonym/Stopword management**: Basic management of synonyms and stopwords.
- **Curation/overrides management**: Basic management of curation/override rules.
- **Document management**: Basic management of documents, including creation, updating, importing, and deletion.

## 🚫 Known Issues

### Mixed Content Restrictions

When Typesense UI is hosted over HTTPS, browsers will block connections to remote Typesense instances that use HTTP (not HTTPS) due to mixed content security restrictions. This primarily affects connections to non-localhost Typesense instances.

**Solutions (in order of preference):**

1. **Configure your Typesense instance to use HTTPS** - The most secure and recommended solution. See the [Typesense SSL/HTTPS documentation](https://typesense.org/docs/28.0/api/server-configuration.html#ssl-https) for configuration instructions.
   
2. **Use a proxy to access your Typesense instance** - You can use tools like http-proxy-middleware to proxy requests:
   ```bash
   npx http-proxy-middleware --port 8108 --target http://remote-typesense:8108
   ```
   Then connect to `http://localhost:8108` in the Typesense UI.

3. **Self-host Typesense UI over HTTP** - If you're running the UI locally or in a controlled environment, you can serve it over HTTP to avoid mixed content restrictions.

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before using this UI, ensure your Typesense server has CORS enabled. You can configure this by adding the following parameters to your Typesense server startup:

```bash
--enable-cors
--cors-domains=https://typesense.lang.scot,http://localhost:3000
```

For more details on CORS configuration, see the [Typesense CORS documentation](https://typesense.org/docs/28.0/api/server-configuration.html#cors).

## 🛠️ Installation & Setup (for running locally/self hosting)

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ 
- pnpm (recommended) or npm

### Quick Start

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/langscot/typesense-ui
   cd typesense-ui
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pnpm install
   # or
   npm install
   ```

3. **Run the development server**
   ```bash
   pnpm dev
   # or
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

### Production Build

```bash
# Build the application
pnpm build

# Start the production server
pnpm start
```

## 🏗️ Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 15 with App Router
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS v4
- **UI Components**: Radix UI + shadcn/ui
- **State Management**: Zustand
- **Data Fetching**: TanStack Query
- **Table**: TanStack Table
- **Forms**: React Hook Form + Zod
- **Animations**: Motion (Framer Motion)
- **Icons**: Lucide React
- **Linting**: Biome

## 🔧 Development

### Available Scripts

```bash
pnpm dev          # Start development server
pnpm build        # Build for production
pnpm start        # Start production server
pnpm lint         # Run linter
pnpm lint:fix     # Fix linting issues
```

### Project Structure

```
typesense-ui/
├── app/                    # Next.js app directory
│   ├── dashboard/          # Dashboard pages
│   └── globals.css         # Global styles
├── components/             # React components
│   ├── ui/                 # Reusable UI components
│   └── *.tsx               # Feature components
├── hooks/                  # Custom React hooks
├── lib/                    # Utilities and configurations
│   └── typesense/          # Typesense client and store
└── public/                 # Static assets
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! This is a learning-focused project, so contributions from all levels of experience are welcome.

### How to Contribute

1. **Open an Issue First**: Before making changes, please open an issue to discuss what you'd like to work on. This helps us coordinate and avoid duplicate work.

2. **Fork & Clone**: Fork the repository and clone it to your local machine.

3. **Create a Branch**: Create a feature branch for your changes.
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```

4. **Make Changes**: Implement your changes

5. **Test**: Ensure your changes work correctly and don't break existing functionality

6. **Submit PR**: Push your changes and submit a pull request with a clear description of what you've added or changed.

## 📄 License

This project is open source and available under the [GNU General Public License v3.0](LICENSE).

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [Typesense](https://typesense.org/) for the excellent search engine
- [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/) for the beautiful UI components
- Claude for the beautiful theme inspiration

---

**Note**: This project is not affiliated with Typesense. It's an independent open-source project created to provide a better UI experience for Typesense users.

## Screenshots

### Connection manager

![Connection manager](docs/images/connection-manager.png)

### Documents Table

![Documents table](docs/images/documents-table.png)
